# Advent of Code Solutions
Here is my collection of submissions for [Advent of Code 2024](https://adventofcode.com/2024). This was the first year that I had heard about Advent of Code, and it seemed like a fun enough set of problems to give it a try. I personally am not interested in the leaderboard or throwing together a quick and dirty solution just to collect a star. Rather, I decided to take this as an opportunity to be able to take a step back and appreciate the craft of writing good code. Here "good" could mean one of many things, depending on the day's mood: solutions optimized for runtime or memory usage scaling, algorithms that seem interesting to implement, new software design architectures, or something simple like thorough testing. While I write a decent amount of code both professionally and for different personal projects, I rarely am afforded the time required to explore and implement some of these desires. I think this dimension will also help keep this endeavor enjoyable.

For my approach, I am choosing to use python. Since this is the language I already use almost exclusively, I am already quite comfortable with it. However, I still believe that there is more to learn within the language and that some specific features of the language that I do not use frequently can (hopefully) be quickly relearned. I have decided to allow myself full access to the standard library but no third-party packages. I will also be writing (and debugging) all of my code without any code generation assistance. Finally, for a slight extra challenge I will write all of my code in vim without any plugins or packages. I think forcing myself to keep an accurate mental model of the code in my brain cache without relying on any IDE suggestions or linting will be a worthwhile exercise.

My understanding is that the problems get harder each day. At some point, solving both parts of each problem may require more time than I can commit given my outstanding responsibilities. I'm not sure what I will do when I reach that point; I may only solve the first part or simply decide that my participation has reached its natural limit. Time will tell...Until I reach that point, I will aim to solve the daily problem and post my solution here, ensuring that the leaderboard is full at the time of submission to maintain its integrity for those interested in that aspect.

