# Day 12

## Part 1
The hard part was determining the regions. To do this, I created a simple algorithm that iterated over all of the valid neighbors of a given position repeatedly. When no additional neighbors were found, all of the members of that region had been identified. This was not a particularly efficient approach, but the algorithm ran plenty fast for the problems of the desired size. Given a region, the perimeter contribution from each cell was easily calculated by determining the number of neighboring cells. Multiplying this by the size of the region produced the cost.

## Part 2
Unlike the perimeter calculation, determining the number of sides for a given region was not trivial. My implementation relied on indexing all of the horizontal and vertical lines, where coordinates were assigned according to the top left position of the line. As an example, the cell position (0, 0) without any neighbors would produce horizontal lines at indices (0, 0) and (1, 0) for the top and bottom, respectively, and vertical lines at indices (0, 0) and (0, 1) for the left and right, respectively. By iterating over all of the cells within a region, we could tabulate all of the vertical and horizontal lines. I had to further distinguish between left and right lines and top and bottom lines since we weren't purchasing from the Mobius Fencing Company. Once we had all of these lines, any lines belonging to an existing side were removed so that each side only had a single representative remaining. Counting the number of representatives across all four lists of edge lines produced the total number of sides, which could then be multiplied by the region size to produce the cost.
